# CS 3650 HW01: Linux, C, and ASM

## Part 2: C and Assembly

C and Assembly programs are structured the same way: as a collection of
functions, possibly spread across multiple source files.

But C and Assembly are even more closely related: they both have the same
concept of a "function". A function written in either language can be called
transparently from the other.

In this assignment, we'll confirm that you have a development environment that
allows you to write, build, and run programs written in C and Assembly.

It is recommended that you use the Xbuntu VM from HW01a with the vim editor.

### Using homework tarballs

The starter code for this assignment is distributed as a .tar.gz archive (a
"gzipped tarball").

 - You can unpack this tarball with: ```tar xzvf [file].tar.gz```
 - The starter code is unpacked into a directory. You want to keep this
   directory and nested directory structure so as to not confuse the
   autograding scripts.
 - Once you've completed your work in the assignment directory, you can
   pack it up into a new tarball for submission
   with: ```tar czvf [new-file].tar.gz [the-directory]```

### Task 1:

 - Create a C source file, "square.c", containing a function called
   "square" that squares a long integer.
 - Run "make square" and "./square 5" to verify that the provided
   assembly code in "square-main.s" can call your function.

### Task 2:
 
 - Create an assembly source file, "cube.s", containing a function called
   "cube" that cubes a long integer (e.g. cube(3) = 27).
 - Run "make cube" and "./cube 5" to verify that the provided 
   C code in "cube-main.c" can call your function.
 - Run "perl test.t" to make sure that the autograder will be happy with
   your code. Fix any issues.

### To Submit:

 - A tarball containing the starter code and your modifications.
 - Make sure you don't change the test script.
 
